.lf 1 ./man/man5/srec_coe.5
'\" t
.\" srecord - Manipulate EPROM load files
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) srec_coe.5
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_coe \- Xilinx Coefficient File Format
.if require_index \{
.\}
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Xilinx Coefficient File Format
has a general syntax of the form:
.TS
tab(*);
l l l l l
l l l l l
l l l s s.
\f[I]keyword\fP*\[eq]*\f[I]value\fP*;*\f[I]optional comment\fP
\f[I]radix\[hy]keyword\fP*\[eq]*\f[I]value\fP*;*\f[I]optional comment\fP
\f[I]data\[hy]keyword\fP*\[eq]*\f[I]value\fP, ..., \f[I]value\fP\f[B];\fP
.TE
.PP
There are numerous keywords, only the \[lq]memory_initialization_radix\[rq]
and \[lq]memory_initialization_vector\[rq] keywords are used.
The semicolons are mandatory.
.SS Size Multiplier
Binary data stored in this format expand approximately 4 times
(5 time on Windows).
.\" We could get this to approach 4 on windows (and remain 4 on Linux)
.\" if we put more than one value per line, with commas and speces
.\" between.
.SS See Also
http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/xilinx11/\
cgn_r_coe_file_syntax.htm
.ne 1i
.lf 1 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.\"
.\"     srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"     Copyright (C) 1998, 2006-2009 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.br
.ne 1i
.SH COPYRIGHT
.lf 1 ./etc/version.so
.ds V) 1.62.D001
.ds v) 1.62
.ds Y) 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
.lf 23 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.I \*(n)
version \*(v)
.br
Copyright
.if n (C)
.if t \(co
\*(Y) Peter Miller
.br
.PP
The
.I \*(n)
program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
This is free software
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(;);
l r l.
Peter Miller;E\[hy]Mail:;pmiller@opensource.org.au
/\e/\e*;WWW:;http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/
.TE
.lf 52 ./man/man5/srec_coe.5
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
