.lf 1 ./man/man5/srec_brecord.5
'\" t
.\"     srecord - The "srecord" program.
.\"     Copyright (C) 2007-2011 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) srec_brecord
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_brecord \- Freescale MC68EZ328 Dragonball bootstrap record format
.if require_index \{
.\}
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
This data format is understood by Freescale MC68EZ328 Dragonball series
processors on their internal UART.
.SS Lines
Each line contains hexadecimal data, each byte represented by two
hexadecimal nybbles in upper case.  Characters not in this set, but
larger than 0x30 (e.g. lower case) will be ignored, less than 0x30
(e.g. CR or LF) are considered record terminators.
Comments are problematic; don't try this at home.
.SS Fields
Each line contains a 4\[hy]byte address (big endian), a 1\[hy]byte
length\[hy]and\[hy]mode, and then data bytes as dictated by the length.
There is \f[B]no\fP checksum.
A zero length record is an execution start address record,
non\[hy]zero length records are data.
.TS
allbox,center,tab(/);
c c c c c c c c c c c c.
1/2/3/4/5/6/7/8/9/10/\&.../\f[I]n\fP
.T&
c s s s s s s s c s c s.
Address/Length/Data
.TE
.LP
The length\[hy]and\[hy]mode byte is formatted as follows:
.TS
allbox,center,tab(/);
c c c c c c c c.
7/6/5/4/3/2/1/0
.T&
c s c c s s s s.
Mode/R/Length
.TE
.TP 8n
\f[I]Mode\fP
These bits are ignored by SRecord in input
(00 = bytes, 01 = half words, 10 is
reserved, 11 = long words).
These bits are always zero on output by SRecord.
.TP 8n
\f[I]R\fP
This bit indicates a data read rather than a data write;
SRecord does not accept input files with this bit set,
and will not set it on output.
.TP 8n
\f[I]Length\fP
The length of the records data bytes.
It does not include the address or length bytes.
The maximum payload of a record is 31 bytes of data.
.SS Size Multiplier
In general, binary data will expand in sized by at least 2.35 times
when represented with this format.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
.ne 2i
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example b\[hy]record format file.
It contains the data \[lq]Hello, World\[rq] to be loaded at address 0.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
000000000D48656C6C6F2C20576F726C640A
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
http://www.freescale.com/files/32bit/doc/ref_manual/MC68VZ328UM.pdf
.ds n) srec_cat
.lf 1 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.\"
.\"     srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"     Copyright (C) 1998, 2006-2009 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.br
.ne 1i
.SH COPYRIGHT
.lf 1 ./etc/version.so
.ds V) 1.62.D001
.ds v) 1.62
.ds Y) 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
.lf 23 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.I \*(n)
version \*(v)
.br
Copyright
.if n (C)
.if t \(co
\*(Y) Peter Miller
.br
.PP
The
.I \*(n)
program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
This is free software
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(;);
l r l.
Peter Miller;E\[hy]Mail:;pmiller@opensource.org.au
/\e/\e*;WWW:;http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/
.TE
.lf 96 ./man/man5/srec_brecord.5
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
