.lf 1 ./man/man5/srec_fastload.5
'\" t
.\"     srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"     Copyright (C) 2001, 2006-2009 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) srec_fastload
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_fastload \- LSI Logic Fast Load file format
.if require_index \{
.\}
.SH DESCRIPTION
The FastLoad Format uses a compressed ASCII format that permits files
to be downloaded in less than half the time taken for Motorola S\[hy]records.
.PP
The base\[hy]64 encoding used is "A\[hy]Za\[hy]z0\[mi]9,.".  The data is
encoded in groups of 4 characters (3 bytes, 24 bits).
.PP
The character '/' is used to introduce
a special function.
Special functions are:
.TP 8n
A\fInnnnnn\fP
Defines an address.
.TP 8n
B\fInn\fP
Define a single byte.
.TP 8n
C\fInnnn\fP
Compare the checksums.
The checksum is a simple positive 16\[hy]bit sum,
of the data bytes only.
.TP 8n
EAA
Define the program's entry point.
The address will be the current address as defined by the \fBA\fP command.
(The \fIAA\fP number in this command is ignored.)
This must be the last entry in the file.
.TP 8n
KAA
Clear the checksum.
(The \fIAA\fP number in this command is ignored.)
.TP 8n
S\fIname\fP,X
Define a symbol.
The address of the symbol will be the current address as defined by the
\fBA\fP command.
.TP 8n
Z\fInn\fP
Clear a number of bytes.
.SS Size Multiplier
In general, binary data will expand in sized by approximately 1.4 times
when represented with this format.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
.ne 2i
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example LSI Logic Fast Load format file.
It contains the data \[lq]Hello, World[rq] to be loaded at address 0.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
/AAAA
SGVsbG8sIFdvcmxk/BAK/CARS/AAAA/EAA
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.ds n) srec_cat
.lf 1 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.\"
.\"     srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"     Copyright (C) 1998, 2006-2009 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.br
.ne 1i
.SH COPYRIGHT
.lf 1 ./etc/version.so
.ds V) 1.62.D001
.ds v) 1.62
.ds Y) 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
.lf 23 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.I \*(n)
version \*(v)
.br
Copyright
.if n (C)
.if t \(co
\*(Y) Peter Miller
.br
.PP
The
.I \*(n)
program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
This is free software
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(;);
l r l.
Peter Miller;E\[hy]Mail:;pmiller@opensource.org.au
/\e/\e*;WWW:;http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/
.TE
.lf 85 ./man/man5/srec_fastload.5
