.lf 1 ./man/man5/srec_forth.5
'\" t
.\" srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Peter Miller
.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Torsten Sadowski
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) srec_forth
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_forth \- FORTH file format
.if require_index \{
.\}
.SH DESCRIPTION
This format can be read by FORTH interpreters
.PP
The file starts with HEX to set the number base.
.PP
Each line contains the address, the byte and a store command, either
C! for RAM or EEC! for EEPROM
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
.ne 2i
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is an example srec[hy]forth file.
It contains the data \[lq]Hello, World\[rq] to be loaded at address 0x1000.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
HEX
48 1000 C!
65 1001 C!
6C 1002 C!
6C 1003 C!
6F 1004 C!
2C 1005 C!
20 1006 C!
57 1007 C!
6F 1008 C!
72 1009 C!
6C 100A C!
64 100B C!
0A 100C C!
.ft P
.fi
.RE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.ds n) srec_cat
.lf 1 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.\"
.\"     srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"     Copyright (C) 1998, 2006-2009 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.br
.ne 1i
.SH COPYRIGHT
.lf 1 ./etc/version.so
.ds V) 1.62.D001
.ds v) 1.62
.ds Y) 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
.lf 23 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.I \*(n)
version \*(v)
.br
Copyright
.if n (C)
.if t \(co
\*(Y) Peter Miller
.br
.PP
The
.I \*(n)
program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
This is free software
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(;);
l r l.
Peter Miller;E\[hy]Mail:;pmiller@opensource.org.au
/\e/\e*;WWW:;http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/
.TE
.lf 62 ./man/man5/srec_forth.5
