.lf 1 ./man/man5/srec_mem.5
'\" t
.\" srecord - Manipulate EPROM load files
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Lattice Semiconductor
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) srec_mem
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_mem \- Lattice Memory Initialization format
.if require_index \{
.\}
.SH DESCRIPTION
A Lattice Memory Initialization format (.mem), by Lattice Semiconductor,
file is an ASCII text file that consists of a header followed by lines
of memory data.
.SS Syntax
The data must be in one of the following formats: Bin
(binary), Hex (hexadecimal), or Address\[hy]Hex (described below).
.PP
For hexadecimal values, both upper and lower case can be used.  If the
data has fewer bits than the specified data width, the most significant
bits are filled with 0.  Any address not specified will be filled with 0.
.PP
Comments can be added at any point after the header (defined below) by
starting the comment with a pound sign (#) or two slashes (//).  The
comment then includes everything to the end of the line.  Comments may be
added to any of the data, but never add comments to the header.
.SS Header
A \f[CW].mem\fP file starts with a header, which declares the file
format, memory size, and address and data display radix for Memory
Generator.  The syntax of the header is:
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
#Format=Bin | Hex | AddrHex
#Depth=1 \f[I]to\fP 65536
#Width=1 \f[I]to\fP 256
#AddrRadix=\f[I]index\[hy]number\fP
#DataRadix=\f[I]index\[hy]number\fP
#Data
.ft R
.fi
.RE
The \f[I]index\[hy]number\fP can be one of the following numbers.
AddrRadix and DataRadix can have different values.
.RS
.nf
Binary: 0
Octal: 1
Decimal: 2
Hexadecimal: 3
.fi
.RE
.PP
For example, the following header says the .mem file is using the
binary format for a 32x8 memory.  When displayed in Memory Generator,
the address will be shown in hexadecimal and the data will be shown in
binary.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
#Format=Bin
#Depth=32
#Width=8
#AddrRadix=3
#DataRadix=0
#Data
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SS Bin and Hex Formats
The data is represented in binary or hexadecimal format.  Each line of
data specifies the contents for one memory location, starting with
address 0.  That is, the first line is for address 0, the second line
is for address 1, and so on.  For each line, the data is interpreted as
least significant bit on the right.
.PP
For example, in the Bin format, the following lines will initialize
address 0 to \[lq]00011011\[rq], address 1 to \[lq]11111010\[rq]
(assuming it is a 32x8 memory).
.RS
.nf
# for a 32x8 memory
11011
11111010
.fi
.RE
.PP
In the Hex format, the following lines will initialize address 0 to
\[lq]003B\[rq], address 1 to \[lq]FB0A\[rq] (assuming it is a 32x16 memory).
.RS
.nf
# for a 32x16 memory
3B
FB0A
.fi
.RE
.SS AddrHex
The data is represented in hexadecimal format.  Each line consists of an
address followed by a colon and then any number of data words, separated
by spaces:
.RS
\f[I]address\fP\fB:\fP \f[I]data data> data\fP...
.RE
The data will be applied starting at <address> and filling in
sequentially from there.
.PP
For example:
.RS
.nf
A0:03 F3 3E 4F
B2:3B 9F
.fi
.RE
will initialize A0 with 03, A1 with F3, A2 with 3E, A3 with 4F, B2 with
3B, and B3 with 9F.  The other addresses will be initialized to 0.  So A4
through B1 will be set to 0.
.SS See Also
.nf
http://help.latticesemi.com/docs/webhelp/eng/wwhelp/wwhimpl/common/html/\
wwhelp.htm#href=Design%20Entry/memory_initialization_file.htm\
#1371843&single=true
.fi
.SS Size Multiplier
The size multiplier depends on the width selected.  As files grow larger,
their size multipliers will approach those in the table, from above.
.TS
tab(;);
c c c
n n n.
Width;Linux;Windows
8;2.96;3.0
16;2.47;2.5
32;2.25;2.28
64;2.13;2.15
.TE
.SS Byte Order
This format is implicitly big\[hy]endian.
Use a \-byte\[hy]swap filter if you need something different.
.lf 1 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.\"
.\"     srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"     Copyright (C) 1998, 2006-2009 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.br
.ne 1i
.SH COPYRIGHT
.lf 1 ./etc/version.so
.ds V) 1.62.D001
.ds v) 1.62
.ds Y) 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
.lf 23 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.I \*(n)
version \*(v)
.br
Copyright
.if n (C)
.if t \(co
\*(Y) Peter Miller
.br
.PP
The
.I \*(n)
program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
This is free software
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(;);
l r l.
Peter Miller;E\[hy]Mail:;pmiller@opensource.org.au
/\e/\e*;WWW:;http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/
.TE
.lf 155 ./man/man5/srec_mem.5
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
