.lf 1 ./man/man5/srec_ppb.5
'\" t
.\" srecord - Manipulate EPROM load files
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) srec_ppb
.TH \*(n) 5 SRecord "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
srec_ppb \- Stag Prom Programmer binary format
.if require_index \{
.\}
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the native binary format of the Stag Prom Programmer.
.SS Format
The format is packet based.
The packet is somposed of an 0x01 byte,
the packet payload size (4 bytes, big\[hy]endian),
the packet address size (4 bytes, big\[hy]endian),
the packet data,
and a one\[hy]byte simple sum of the payload data.
.PP
If the packet payload is more than 1024 bytes, there is an
intermediate checksum after each 1024th payload pyte.
.PP
The end of file is indicated by a packet with a zero\[hy]length payload.
.SS Command Line Option
This format is specified using the \fB\-PPB\fP command line option.
.SS Size Multiplier
In general, binary data will expand in sized by approximately 1.002
times when represented with this format (worse if there are many short
data regions).
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
http://www.stag.co.uk/
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.ds n) srec_cat
.lf 1 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.\"
.\"     srecord - manipulate eprom load files
.\"     Copyright (C) 1998, 2006-2009 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.br
.ne 1i
.SH COPYRIGHT
.lf 1 ./etc/version.so
.ds V) 1.62.D001
.ds v) 1.62
.ds Y) 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
.lf 23 ./man/man1/z_copyright.so
.I \*(n)
version \*(v)
.br
Copyright
.if n (C)
.if t \(co
\*(Y) Peter Miller
.br
.PP
The
.I \*(n)
program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
This is free software
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(;);
l r l.
Peter Miller;E\[hy]Mail:;pmiller@opensource.org.au
/\e/\e*;WWW:;http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/
.TE
.lf 51 ./man/man5/srec_ppb.5
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
